My child, do not cheat the poor of their living, and do not keep needy eyes waiting.
Do not grieve the hungry, or anger one in need.
Do not add to the troubles of the desperate, or delay giving to the needy.
Do not reject a suppliant in distress, or turn your face away from the poor.
Do not avert your eye from the needy, and give no one reason to curse you;
for if in bitterness of soul some should curse you, their Creator will hear their prayer.
Endear yourself to the congregation; bow your head low to the great.
Give a hearing to the poor, and return their greeting politely.
Rescue the oppressed from the oppressor; and do not be hesitant in giving a verdict.
Be a father to orphans, and be like a husband to their mother; you will then be like a son of the Most High, and he will love you more than does your mother.
Wisdom teaches her children and gives help to those who seek her.
Whoever loves her loves life, and those who seek her from early morning are filled with joy.
Whoever holds her fast inherits glory, and the Lord blesses the place she enters.
Those who serve her minister to the Holy One; the Lord loves those who love her.
Those who obey her will judge the nations, and all who listen to her will live secure.
If they remain faithful, they will inherit her; their descendants will also obtain her.
For at first she will walk with them on tortuous paths; she will bring fear and dread upon them, and will torment them by her discipline until she trusts them, and she will test them with her ordinances.
Then she will come straight back to them again and gladden them, and will reveal her secrets to them.
If they go astray she will forsake them, and hand them over to their ruin.
Watch for the opportune time, and beware of evil, and do not be ashamed to be yourself.
For there is a shame that leads to sin, and there is a shame that is glory and favor.
Do not show partiality, to your own harm, or deference, to your downfall.
Do not refrain from speaking at the proper moment, and do not hide your wisdom.
For wisdom becomes known through speech, and education through the words of the tongue.
Never speak against the truth, but be ashamed of your ignorance.
Do not be ashamed to confess your sins, and do not try to stop the current of a river.
Do not subject yourself to a fool, or show partiality to a ruler.
Fight to the death for truth, and the Lord God will fight for you.
Do not be reckless in your speech, or sluggish and remiss in your deeds.
Do not be like a lion in your home, or suspicious of your servants.
Do not let your hand be stretched out to receive and closed when it is time to give.