Do no evil, and evil will never overtake you.
Stay away from wrong, and it will turn away from you.
Do not sow in the furrows of injustice, and you will not reap a sevenfold crop.
Do not seek from the Lord high office, or the seat of honor from the king.
Do not assert your righteousness before the Lord, or display your wisdom before the king.
Do not seek to become a judge, or you may be unable to root out injustice; you may be partial to the powerful, and so mar your integrity.
Commit no offense against the public, and do not disgrace yourself among the people.
Do not commit a sin twice; not even for one will you go unpunished.
Do not say, “He will consider the great number of my gifts, and when I make an offering to the Most High God, he will accept it. ”
Do not grow weary when you pray; do not neglect to give alms.
Do not ridicule a person who is embittered in spirit, for there is One who humbles and exalts.
Do not devise a lie against your brother, or do the same to a friend.
Refuse to utter any lie, for it is a habit that results in no good.
Do not babble in the assembly of the elders, and do not repeat yourself when you pray.
Do not hate hard labor or farm work, which was created by the Most High.
Do not enroll in the ranks of sinners; remember that retribution does not delay.
Humble yourself to the utmost, for the punishment of the ungodly is fire and worms.
Do not exchange a friend for money, or a real brother for the gold of Ophir.
Do not dismiss a wise and good wife, for her charm is worth more than gold.
Do not abuse slaves who work faithfully, or hired laborers who devote themselves to their task.
Let your soul love intelligent slaves; do not withhold from them their freedom.
Do you have cattle? Look after them; if they are profitable to you, keep them.
Do you have children? Discipline them, and make them obedient from their youth.
Do you have daughters? Be concerned for their chastity, and do not show yourself too indulgent with them.
Give a daughter in marriage, and you complete a great task; but give her to a sensible man.
Do you have a wife who pleases you? Do not divorce her; but do not trust yourself to one whom you detest.
With all your heart honor your father, and do not forget the birth pangs of your mother.
Remember that it was of your parents you were born; how can you repay what they have given to you?
With all your soul fear the Lord, and revere his priests.
With all your might love your Maker, and do not neglect his ministers.
Fear the Lord and honor the priest, and give him his portion, as you have been commanded: the first fruits, the guilt offering, the gift of the shoulders, the sacrifice of sanctification, and the first fruits of the holy things.
Stretch out your hand to the poor, so that your blessing may be complete.
Give graciously to all the living; do not withhold kindness even from the dead.
Do not avoid those who weep, but mourn with those who mourn.
Do not hesitate to visit the sick, because for such deeds you will be loved.
In all you do, remember the end of your life, and then you will never sin.